# msvc-code-analysis-action

This actions run code analysis for any CMake project built with the Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler. The analysis
will produce SARIF results that can be uploaded to the GitHub Code Scanning Alerts experience.

## Usage

### Pre-requisites

Include a workflow `.yml` file using an [example](#example) below as a template. Run the `msvc-code-analysis-action`
after configuring CMake for your project. Building the project is only required if the C++ source files involve the use
of generated files.


### Inputs
- `cmakeBuildDirectory` (**required**) the CMake build directory that should already be generated.
- `resultsDirectory` (**default:** ${{github.workspace}}/results) the directory in which the individual SARIF files
produced by analysis will be located.
- `ruleset` (**default:** NativeRecommendedRules.ruleset) ruleset file used to determine what checks are run. This can
reference a ruleset that ship with Visual Studio or a custom file in the project.
- `ignoreSystemHeaders` (**default:** true) uses the /external command-line arguments to ignore warnings from any
headers marked as SYSTEM in CMake. This is only compatible with Toolchain version > Visual Studio 16.10 and a recent
build of CMake.
- `cleanSarif` (**default:** true) SARIF files will under `results` directory are considered stale and will be deleted.
- `args` optional parameters to pass to every instance of the compiler.

### Example

```yml
jobs:
  build:
    env:
      buildDir: '${{ github.workspace }}/build'

    steps:
      # Configure project with CMake
      - name: Configure CMake
        uses: lukka/run-cmake@v3
        with:
          cmakeGenerator: 'VS16Win64'
          buildDirectory: ${{ env.buildDir }}
          # Build is not require unless generated source files are used
          buildWithCMake: false

      # Run Microsoft Visual C++ code analysis
      - name: Initialize MSVC Code Analysis 
        uses: microsoft/msvc-code-analysis-action
        with:
          cmakeBuildDirectory: ${{ env.buildDir }}
          # Path to directory that will contain produced sarif files
          resultsDirectory: ${{ env.buildDir }}/results
          # Ruleset file that will determine what checks will be run
          ruleset: NativeRecommendRules.ruleset

      # Upload all SARIF files generated by analysis
      - name: Upload SARIF files
        uses: github/codeql-action/upload-sarif@v1
        with:
          sarif_file: build
```

## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most contributions require you to agree to a
Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.opensource.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide
a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., status check, comment). Simply follow the instructions
provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.
